# Gold-Final-Project-Challenges
Komodo Cafe ReadMe
This ReadMe is for the ElevenFifty GoldBadge FinalProject. Thanks for reading Adam/Terry. I apologize in advance if this is not 100% complete. I am going to attempt to describe my Cafe challenge as well as possible and then move on to the next 2 but I may run out of time before I can get to the other challenges.
Also we were told to write this as if the person reading has no knowledge of code so some stuff may seem redundant or silly to describe. I am imagining that my mom is going to be the one reading this so I will attempt to explain as much as I can. 

We are going to establish a few key words above here so the typing is less drawn out. A METHOD is wrote out as TheNameOfMethod() with curly braces {} opened up below it and logic written inside of those curly braces. The "()" are called PARAMATERS and you can pass in different variables(variables are just the names of different types. i,e bool, string, int) that you create when needed (we will use these quite often) so don't forget the word paramaters. A bool is a simple True/false variable, a string is a string of letters like what's being typed in this read me. A loop is exactly what it sounds like. Therefore a "While Loop" is wrote out as while() with a bool variable passed into the paramaters and WHILE that bool is true it will continue to loop through the stuff inside the Curly braces or {} that are opened up below it. We will also use the term Console followed by a . and then either WriteLine(writes out whats in the paramaters) or a ReadLine(takes in user input and reads it), Clear(wipes the console window clean to keep it from being so messy) or a ReadKey(takes in a single key press). There are other Console. options but these are the main 4 we will be using. A switch case is wrote out as switch() and then the paramaters usually take in a variable and below you list your cases or "choices" for lack of a better word. Each case will hold a method that is filled with logic below in our UI.

To begin the project I started off by making 3 assemblies. One is a class named MenuPOCOs that holds the plain old c-sharp objects I will need to use in the program UI. The objects it holds are a string(letters) of Meal name, an int(whole numbers) Meal number, a string called Meal description, a list of strings named _ingredientsList , and a double(or number that can have a decimal) called item price. Then I created an empty constructor, and another constructor that passes in all of my objects I created above and sets their name equal to the same name just typed in camelCase. For example the object MealName = mealName; . 
In my program UI consoleApp I created a private field named _mealRepo with the identtifier being the the MenuRepo class library I created. Next comes the Run method that has my Seed method and my RunMenu method. In the RunMenu method I created a bool named ContinueToRun and set it equal to true; then made a while loop and passed the bool into the paramaters. While that bool is true it runs the following logic. Console.WriteLine and in the paramaters it has 3 choices for the user, 1. Create Menu Items, 2. View Menu Items, 3. Delete Menu Items. Below that we will create a new string named userInput and set that equal to a Console.ReadLine(); then we create a swtich case with case 1 being our CreateMenuItems method, case 2 is our ViewAllMenuItems method and case 3 is our DeleteExistingMenuItems method. All have their own logic to complete a task. 

The logic for the CreateMenuItems() is a Console.Clear(), then we create a variable named menuItem with the identifier of this variable being our MenuPOCOs class and we set it equal to a new MenuPOCOs(); so its typed out as MenuPOCOs menuItem = new MenuPOCOs();   Next comes a WriteLine that says Creating new Menu Items to let the user know what will be happening. Then we use a WriteLine again to ask the user for the Meal Name they want to inoput. Now we create a new string and name it userInput and set it equal to a ReadLine. 
Now we take our newly created variable menuItem and use the . accessor and it will access the objects from the MenuPOCOs class and since we asked for a meal name we use menuItem.MealName and set that equal to the userInput variable from above. After the user gives us the name of the meal they are creating we let them know with a writeline that the meal number auto assigns. This happens due to our Repository class and the method written that is called AddMealNumberToMeal whose paramaters consist of our MenuPOCOs class and a variable name of mealNumber. This is local so it only applies to this method. This repository helper method has an auto incrementing logic that starts at 0 and then each time we use the .MealNumber accessor in our UI it will auto assign the count or number of that meal. we use a list created at the top of the repository class that is named _mealDirectory followed by the .Add accessor thats built in to visual studio and pass in the mealNumber variable. then we "return true;" and that finishes our first repository method.
Next we use a WriteLine to ask the user for a description of the meal. Then we make a new string named userInputMealDescription and set it equal to a ReadLine. after that we again use the menuItem variable name but this time we use the dot accessor to get MealDescription from our MenuPOCOs class. It looks like menuItem.MealDescription and we set that equal to userInputMealDescription; 

Next we set a bool variable named userInputMoreIngreients and set it equal to false. then we make a List of strings named ingredientsToAdd and set it equal to a new List<string>.
Now we use a while loop and in the paramaters we use the bang operator or "!" to say basically while (!userInputMoreIngredients) (or while the bool is not false) it means that while the user answers "y" or yes to the question we ask at the beginning of this while loop it will continue to loop and let them add more ingredients. The while loop starts off with a WriteLine and asks the user if they want to Add Ingredients to this new Item with the choice of (y/n).  next is a new string variable named userInputMI and its set equal to a ReadLine.ToLower()   the to lower makes it so even if they user inputs a capital Y or N it will convert to a lower case y or n to match what we asked for in the writeline above. now we use an if else statement and in the paramaters we set the userInputMI variable == to "y"   which means at the end of the if statement it will loop back to the writeline and ask the (y/n) and as long as it gets a "y" from the user the if statement will activate. our if statement asks for the input of the new ingredient used in the meal with a writeLine. then we make a new string variable named ingredient and set it equal to a ReadLine. Now we use the list variable ingredientsToAdd and then the .Add accessor with our variable "ingredient" passed in the paramaters. Should look like this  ingredientsToAdd.Add(ingredient);  this adds the user input of ingredient into the list of ingreditents to add.   then we have our else part of the if else statement. the only logic in here is userInputMoreIngredients = true; which just means if the user says "n" to adding more ingredients it will kick us out of the while loop and go to the next line of code. That next like of code is menuItem._ingredirentsList.AddRange(ingredientsToAdd);. what this is doing is it takes that menuItem variable and then uses the . accessor to access the list of strings we made in the MenuPOCOs class and then it uses the . accessor again to access the built in AddRange accessor visual studio has to add in a range of items. the .Add would only add a sinlge item but we possibly got multiple inputs from the user since we are making a meal so we want to use AddRange instead. and finally in the paramaters you put the ingredientsToAdd List variable and the users input of ingredients is added. 

Then we ask for the price of the new menu item with a writeline and below that we use the double data type and name the variable userInputItemPrice set equal to a double.Parse(Console.ReadLine());  the double.Parse is built in to Visual Studio and it basically converts the string Console.Readline to its double equivalent. Next we take the  menuitem variable and use the . accessor to pull ItemPrice from out MenuPOCOs class and set it equal to userInputItemPrice. 

thats essentially the end of the logic, all we do now is create a bool called isSuccessful and set it equal to  _mealRepo.AddMealNumberToMeal(menuItem)   _mealRepo is coming from the top of the UI where we set our MealRepo _mealRepo = new MealRepo();  next we use an if else statement and in the if paramaters pass in isSuccessful and write out to the user that the Menu Item was Created.   then in the else part we write out Menu item Creation failed. So if for some reason the user messes up on inputting information the logic will let them know it didn't work. and finally at the end we use a Console.ReadKey() to make the user press a key to finish off this method and go back to our main menu with the 3 choices we started with.    Thats Choice 1 described in its entirety, probably more detailed than it needed to be so I am going to try to type a little less on the remaining 2 choices now that we have the basis down for whats happening. 

Choice 2 is the ViewAllMenuItems method and it does exactly what it sounds like. It will display all of our meut items with help from a helper method named DisplayMenuItemDetails.   we start with a Console.Clear and a List<MenuPOCOs> menuPOCOs = _mealRepo.GetMenuItems();. the Get menu items is a method in the repository class. this method is simple and just returns the _mealDirectory list that we created at the top of the repository class.  Back inside the logic of our ViewAllMenuItems method we use an if statement and its paramaters call in the menuPOCOs variable and set it not equal to null. So as long as that list isnt empty the following logic runs.  We use a foreach statement and in its paramaters we call the MenuPOCOs class and assign it a variable named menuItem and foreach menuItem inside of the list we created above it will call the DisplayMenuItemDetails(); in the paramaters of that we call in our menuItem. then we get to the else statement that will write out No items available. So if our list is empty it will say there are no menu items available. 

the DisplaymenuItemDetails is a helper method whose paramaters contain a "MenuPOCOs menuItem" variable.  This method writes out all the details of the menu item. we use a writeline with string interpolation that writes out Meal Name: Meal Number: Meal Description: Item Price:  in the WriteLine after each one of those we use curly braces to pull in our menuItem and use the . accessor to call the corresponding object from the MenuPOCOs class. So it will look like {menuItem.MealName} and so on for each one we need. then we use the Show ingredients helper method to list the ingredients of the item. 
Show ingredients is in the program UI whose paramaters containt a List<string> named listOfIngredients. the logic of the method containts a foreach statement that says foreach(string ingredient in listOfIngredients) console.WriteLine("Meal Ingredients:" + " " + ingredient) this means that foreach ingredient in our list it will show them. The empty quotes just signify empty space for better readability on the console window. At the bottom of our UI we have the Seed() method. This just holds pre set menu items that we would like to have on our menu as a restaraunt or business. We use the MenuPOCOs then name the variable A and set it equal to a new MenuPOCOs and in the paramaters we create a menu item. this order must be the same as the constructor from the MenuPOCOs class. So Meal Name, Meal number, description,  our list of ingredients and finally the price.


The last method is the DeleteExistingMenuItems but I am out of time to be able to describe that for now. Its 11:54 so I need to do my final push to git and save everything. I apologize for not being able to write a readme for each challenge but i wanted to be as detailed as possible here. Basically the Delete method just asks for the MealNumber of the meal you want to delete then deletes it.
